Improve redux i in react (#1521)
enkidevs/curriculum: javascript/react/redux-i/your-first-reducer.md

---
author: kapnobatai136

levels:
  - advanced
  - medium
  - basic

type: normal

category: must-know

links:

aspects:
  - introduction

---
# Your first reducer

---
## Content

> In a previous insight we have created a simple `reducer` that looked something like this:

Reviewer: Why `reducer` and not reducer? It's not code, right?

Author: You are right, wanted to evidentiate it but I could've done that with bold. I've removed the code ticks from `reducer`.

```jsx
// App.js
function reducer(state, action) {
  return state;
}
```

Let's try and develop this `reducer` to make it fit with our `<Counter />` component. The first step consists of setting our initial `state`, and passing that to our `reducer`:

```jsx
// App.js
const initialState = {
  count: 0
};

function reducer(
  state = initialState,
  action
) {
  return state;
}
```

> You might be wondering what an `action` is, and the answer to that is: a plain object that has a property called `type`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might be wondering what an `action` is, and the answer to that is: a plain object that has a property called `type` and (optionally) other properties specific to that action type:
```

```jsx
{
  type: "add an item",
  item: "banana"
}
```

> For our component, we will want to increase, decrease or reset the counter. To do this, we would write our `reducer` like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For our component, we will want to increase, decrease or reset the counter. To do this, we would write our `reducer` such that it inspects the `type` of an action received and returns the new updated state for a particular action:
```
